.TH FASTBLUR 1 2021-11-25
.SH NAME
fastblur \- quickly blur images with efficient filtering
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fastblur
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.I SOURCE
.I DEST
.SH DESCRIPTION
Blur the image in \fIsource\fR and write the blurred image to \fIdest\fR. fastblur uses
efficient filtering techniques to produce an output similar to true gaussian blur
(depending on options) but in a fraction of the time.
.PP
fastblur uses multiple passes of a moving average filter. Repeated moving average
filters converges to a gaussian kernel. More passes gives more accurate guassian blur
gives diminishing returns.
.PP
The moving average filter is implemented as a recursive filter meaning that, as opposed to other image blurring software, blur size does not impact performance significantly.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-G ", " \-\-fast\-gamma
Use a fast approximation for gamma encoding and decoding. Improves performance of the gamma encoding step by an order of magnitude. Produces slightly inaccurate results, especially in dark regions.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-blur\-passes\fR=\fIcount
Run \fIcount\fR passes of the moving average filter in each direction.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-resize\fR=\fIgeometry
Resize the image before blurring. Uses the nearest neighbor interpolation method.
The argument has the format <\fIwidth\fR>\fBx\fR<\fIheight\fR>[\fB@\fR<\fIgravity\fR>]. If resizing to a new aspect ratio, the resized image fills the original image in one dimension and the \fIgravity\fR argument controls the position along the other dimension.
.TP
\fB\-\-raw\fR=\fIformat
Assume \fIsource\fR is a "raw" bitmap file, i.e a file containing only bitmap data, no metadata.
The argument has the format <\fIwidth\fR>\fBx\fR<\fIheight\fR>\fB:\fR<\fIpixfmt\fR> where
\fIpixfmt\fR is one of the following: \fBrgb\fR, \fBrgba\fR, \fBargb\fR,\fBbgr\fR,
\fBbgra\fR, \fBabgr\fR.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-blur\-size\fR=\fIsize
Set the length of the moving average filter to \fIsize\fR.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help
Print a help message describing arguments, then exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-usage
Print a short usage message, then exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version
Print program version, then exit.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Axel Matstoms

